Overview
--------

This document's purpose is to maintain consistency between all teams on how to name branches, use commit messages, and what is needed to make a merge request.

Branches
--------

Branch names should follow the convention of the Jira ticket number and a description separated by dashes. Because we are in a wholly docker environment, docker itself does not create image tags with special characters other than dashes or underscores. The Jira ticket number is important because it automatically links properly in Gitlab when you submit a new Merge Request. An example of an appropriate branch name is this:

edq-1111-i-have-made-a-change

Aside from this standard, the only other branches should be development and master. These will not follow any other naming convention.

Commits
-------

Commit messages are an important part of using git, but also Gitlab itself looks at the commit messages and has some behaviors that are triggered based on the contents. One of which is to take your main commit message and to use it as the suggested title of your Merge Request. A commit message should start with the Jira ticket number in normal format (EDQ-1111) with capital letters for the project. The rest of your commit message should follow best practices like [this article demonstrates](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/). That example is a bit extreme, so a simple example is this:

EDQ-1111 I have made this change to that thing.

Commit messages for development and master branches will be autogenerated.

Merge Requests
--------------

Merge Requests should have the title and summary somewhat completed if you have followed the above steps correctly. In addition, there are things that should be addressed as soon as you make a new merge request:

```
MR Desc Template

## What does this change do?
(High level description here)

## MR Checklist
- [] The Jira ticket is in the title.
- [] I have updated unit tests or updates were not needed.
- [] This change will not affect Cypress tests.
- [] I have smoke tested this change.
- [] I have updated relevant documentation.
- [] Delete branch on merge is checked.

## Link to related MRs

## Additional Information
```

This will vary some from project to project as applicable. This allows you to put in the summary of the merge request some basic information to help reviewers, QA, and Release Managers understand what the changes include. A good example of how and why you should write a merge requests is posted [here](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/why-you-should-write-merge-requests-like-youre-posting-to-instagram-765e32a3ec9c/).